In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. The Episcopal Church welcomes you. Have you seen that phrase before? It is on the signs down here at Hollywood and Kenmore. We even have bumper stickers that proclaim, "The Episcopal Church welcomes you." What does it mean to welcome others?

Well, back in the 1950s, the heyday of the Episcopal Church, when membership and attendance numbers peaked, we built churches in residential neighborhoods just like this one, opened the doors, and the people came in. It is said, "If you build it, they will come." Well, that was then, and this is now. Membership and attendance numbers have generally been in decline since the 50s, and people are no longer flocking in the doors as they once did. Back then, it was easy to open the door and extend a welcome to all who came in, but maybe welcoming others in the name of Christ isn't a mere passive welcome. 

If they come in the front door, we shake their hand and give them a gift basket. Maybe it's an active welcome that requires some intentionality on our part. One voice from the Christian tradition has a great deal to say about this kind of intentional welcome. I mentioned him last week in my sermon as he's on my mind while I prepare for a week-long retreat with a group of monks who follow his rule: Saint Benedict of Nursia. Benedict was born in the year 480 in Nursia, Italy, to wealthy Roman parents. He began his studies with the goal of having a career as a noble statesman, but around the age of 20, he decided to leave city life and find a quieter place outside the hustle and bustle. 

On his way, he encountered a monk and ultimately had a conversion experience, deciding to live as a hermit. For three years, he lived in a cave in solitude, a solitude broken only by occasional communication with the outside world and by the visit of a friend. He matured both in mind and character during this three-year period, and eventually, a local group of monks asked him to become their abbot. He spent a few years there and moved on to found 12 monasteries in the area. St. Benedict is best known for being the founder of Western monasticism, and the rule that he wrote to govern the lives of his monks is known as the Rule of St. Benedict. 

In his rule, he says to his monks, "All guests who present themselves are to be welcomed as Christ." This isn't, of course, something that Benedict invented. He was simply obeying his Lord, who told his disciples in this morning's Gospel, "Whoever welcomes you welcomes me, and whoever welcomes me welcomes the one who sent me." What does it mean to welcome another as if he or she were Christ himself? One of the stories of Benedict's time in the cave is helpful in answering this question. He had been alone in the cave for three years, in silence and solitude, when he was visited by a priest who came to give him some company at Easter. 

Benedict was so deep in prayer and so far away from everything that he had no idea it was Easter. But to the priest's greeting, he replied, "Easter it is indeed, since I have the joy of seeing you." In the face of the first person he sees, Benedict sees the joy of the resurrection of Christ. Do I also find the risen Christ in the face of the one who comes? Is this what is being asked of me in receiving the other as Christ? I propose to you that the other, or the stranger, is simply the one who isn't like you in some way. It is easy to welcome those who are like us, with whom we are comfortable. It is much harder to welcome those who are different from us. 

God calls us to welcome the other as we would welcome Christ himself. What would happen if each of us asked ourselves every time we vote, "How should my political views be informed by this call to welcome the stranger as if he or she were Jesus Christ himself?" How would our parish be transformed if we welcomed the stranger as if he or she were Christ? I hear all the time about how welcoming Atonement is, and we certainly are. Our ushers do a great job at greeting newcomers, and all of you do a beautiful job of doing the same both at the peace and at coffee hour. 

But what if God is calling us to an even deeper welcome of the stranger? In our language today, we tend to reserve the word "stranger" for the person we've never met. But in a congregation as diverse as Atonement, the stranger might be the person sitting three rows ahead of you right now. Someone whose vote, whose race, whose age, whose socioeconomic status, or whose theology differs from yours enough that you have never quite managed to have a real conversation. What would happen if we intentionally approached one of these fellow parishioners and invited them over for dinner or out for coffee? Not to discuss any of these differences explicitly, but to radically welcome them as if they were Christ himself—to see the face of Jesus in their face, to enter into their lives, joys, and struggles, to begin to more deeply love them as Christ has loved you. 

This act of welcome that is active and intentional is not without its risks. Welcoming a stranger is something that doesn't come naturally to us. It requires vulnerability. The stranger might reject my overture, or whatever it is that divides us may become a topic of discussion that goes south. Despite the risks, it is deeply rewarding. For in welcoming the other, we are given the opportunity to humbly listen and learn from their perspective. Despite our differences, we are given the opportunity to form a relationship with a living, breathing human being who was made in the image of God just like we were. We are given the opportunity to recognize the miracle and joy of the resurrection of our Lord in the face of the other. 

So my invitation to you, my challenge to you this week, is to seek out a stranger in your life, whether here at Atonement or beyond. Someone who is radically different than you are in some way. Just one stranger. Be intentional. As St. Benedict did in that cave, recognize the resurrection of Jesus in the face of the stranger and welcome them as if they were Christ himself, and see what happens. Amen.