In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. 

We find a familiar image in this morning's reading from Zechariah: a humble king riding into Jerusalem on a donkey. He comes not to make war, but to bring peace. His domain will stretch from sea to sea and from the river to the end of the earth. This prophecy was written to a dispossessed people, prisoners of hope, who had come to expect unfulfilled prophecies and unanswered prayers. The unnamed prophet promises that even now, after all the people of Judea have been through and experienced, God will still restore peace and prosperity.

Six centuries later, all four gospel writers will employ this image of the peaceful king entering the city of Jerusalem to depict Jesus of Nazareth, riding humbly to his death. Tempers and national fervor were running high as Jesus rode into the holy city. It had been only 27 years since Judea's annexation to Syria, and the Jewish people who had hoped so fiercely for peace and freedom under direct Roman rule were once again prisoners of hope. The Roman governor, Pontius Pilate, was misappropriating temple funds, and debilitating taxes kept communities in poverty while wealth trickled up to the emperor. Rome used public crucifixions to keep the local population in check. Violence became a normal part of public life, and religious oppression contributed to an atmosphere of fear and resentment.

That week, throngs of pilgrims filled the city for Passover, their festival of liberation, filled with righteous anger over John the Baptist's state-ordered execution. And so Jesus mounted a donkey and rode down the Western slope from the Mount of Olives into the heart of this political drama. The crowds would have been frantic with excitement, watching this charismatic rabbi pass by, this poor Jew who knew the yoke of their oppression and understood the burden they had carried for so long. This was the prophecy fulfilled, the hope rekindled. They waved palms and cried, "Hosanna, please deliver us. Hosanna, save us now." They cried, "Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord." Those angry, desperate people came to witness a messiah who would save them from Roman oppression, restore the Davidic line, and bring an everlasting peace. 

And Jesus did all these things, but not in the way they expected. Less than 40 years after Jesus' crucifixion, Rome would besiege the holy city and burn the temple to the ground. The center of Jewish life would be utterly destroyed, and the Jewish people would be forced to adapt to a world without the temple. Theologian and civil rights leader Howard Thurman saw the genius of Jesus' ministry in this moment before the temple fell. Thurman explains that Jesus knew there was only one battlefield where the Jewish people could defeat the forces of fear, deception, and hatred. Again and again, Thurman writes, Jesus came back to the inner life of the individual. With increasing insight and startling accuracy, he placed his finger on the inward center as the crucial arena where the issues would be determined that would shape the destiny of his people.

Jesus aimed the full force of his divine power not at the chariots of Ephraim or the war horses of Jerusalem, but at the hearts of his followers, inculcating an abiding hope that would survive many deaths and rebirths. This hope has survived now for many generations in the hearts of oppressed peoples with their backs against the wall. Hope sailed the Middle Passage and was nurtured in the Black church, from midnight gatherings and clapboard chapels to the magnificent Mother Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, that same spirit moving through the Black Lives Matter movement today. Hope danced in port cities and forged secret lives in small towns, building community and resilience, teaching my generation of queer people that silence equals death. Hope demanded dignity for the workers who harvest the nation's food, resisting oppression through labor strikes and week-long fasts, responding to "No, you can't" with "Sí se puede." Yes, we can.

God has sent us so many American saints and martyrs who have carried a radical, disruptive hope in their hearts. Despite every card stacked against them, they dared to hope that one day love would have dominion in this nation from sea to sea and that the prisoners of injustice would be set free from the waterless pit. Today is the first day of America's 251st year. I know we here today have every reason to feel hopeless. Our systems of government are too intractably corrupt, the game tilted too far towards greed and power, towards white nationalists who brandish the cross to justify subjugation, towards the attention economy and new technologies that burn too fast and too bright. 

But nevertheless, it is our turn to hope. Just as the prophet from Zechariah urged the long-suffering nation to keep the faith, we are called to hope and believe in a better future, a resurrected future. Make no mistake, our first allegiance does not belong to this nation. Our allegiance belongs to Christ, who rode humbly to his own death and conquered death. And that's why we will not give up hope. We know that love wins in the end. Besides, God has placed us here and now to serve out our ministries in this nation. This is the context to which we have been called to build Christ's kingdom here on earth. 

So yes, it is our turn to fan the flame of hope. It's our turn to hope for an America that offers liberty and equality to all. Hope is not wishful thinking; it is faith in God's promise. Hope trains our eye on the horizon so that we can keep working toward that better day. And the assignment is clear: love God and love neighbor. Yes, we're all familiar with this, but any practicing Christian can tell you it's hard to know where to start. Love God and love your neighbor. How do we obey these two greatest commandments?

I was struck by Father Charles's definition of obedience in his sermon from a couple of weeks ago. To obey is to listen and respond. Listening to God takes time. It requires creating real quality time in our schedules and space in our hearts to pray and to listen to that still, small voice to guide us. We are also called to listen to our neighbors, which also takes time—intentional, slow time—to listen, learn, and understand with the ears of our hearts. And then respond. Respond even when it's hard, even when you're called to do something you've never done before. Your ministry may send you out to the sparse edges of your own world, or you might find yourself riding straight into the centers of power. 

This is not an easy path, listening and responding to God and neighbor. Choosing hope is never easy, but listen to Jesus' promise in today's Gospel reading from Matthew: "Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light." In this 251st year of our nation's history, we no longer, we never did, have time for doom-scrolling. It is time to put away fear and despair. Return to your stronghold, O prisoners of hope. Christ is making all things new.