In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. I'm one of those insufferable morning people—the kind of guy who hasn't needed an alarm in years, who can usually hop out of bed and get right to it. However, that often comes at a cost later in the day, as my husband can attest to the fact that I haven't been able to stay awake for a movie that started after 8 o'clock in many years. But during the longer days of summer, which sadly I've already noticed are starting to shorten, I find myself using the early hours to go to the lake and get some exercise in first thing. 

While running or biking, I get the astonishing experience of watching the sun rise over the lake a few times a week. For you night owls—who I think there are probably many of you at the 11 o'clock service—who couldn't dream of getting up at 4:45 in the morning and going to the water, I really encourage you to set your alarms. Not only will you get to see the magic of our fair city when she is truly on, but you will also see your fellow Chicagoans in a different light. Aside from the folks just getting in their morning exercise, one also gets glimpses of the deep spirituality of the people that we share our city streets with—people meditating, doing yoga, or simply staring at the water while lost in thought or prayer. They stop their lives, even those who appear to be training for triathlons and marathons, just to take in the sheer beauty of what they are witnessing. 

People who perhaps recognize and are contemplating a deeper meaning to our experience of life in this beautiful but troubled world. People, in the words of Isaiah, whose profound thirst is drawing them to the water. I might argue that there has never been a time in human history where we should be less thirsty and hungry—a time when there is enough money in the world, and in our country in particular, where no one should thirst or die of starvation. An extraordinary time where, if one has the means, they can literally have anything delivered to their door, sometimes in less than an hour—something our ancestors could not have fathomed. 

So why is it that, living in a culture of ultimate satiation and wealth, relative safety and comfort, there is a palpable restlessness, an anxiety, a numbness in society that I'm sure I am not the only one to feel? We are now more connected than we have ever been, yet many of us have never felt more isolated and alone. Many of us feel caught in the endless loop of repeating the same day over and over, zombie-like, numb, and wondering, "Is this it?" Others are overwhelmed by the exponential growth of technology with the rise of AI and are afraid of what this means for society, fearing that they might get left behind. 

We continue to turn to things that we think will relieve our collective restlessness, but which only perpetuate this numbness: money, sex, politics, power, alcohol, drugs, social media—the list goes on and on. Isaiah says this morning, "Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy?" Walter Brueggemann certainly has a lot to say on this subject. For those of you who don't know him, he was an Old Testament scholar who died just last year, probably best known for his scholarship on the prophets of the Old Testament, which he urges us to look to for wisdom and guidance. 

Brueggemann speaks extensively of the similarities between our culture of satiation and numbness and that of ancient Jerusalem. He discusses the evils of oppressive empire in both worlds—strikingly similar, though separated by many thousands of years. He highlights how the rich and the powerful maintain their wealth and power, while those on the margins of society keep getting pushed further and further away, continuing to hunger and thirst. He speaks of the necessity of recognizing and naming this collective restlessness and anxiety—something that the prophets had the courage to do then, and that we are called to do now as people of faith. 

He says that in order for us to move forward to newness out of this restlessness and numbness, we must first grieve openly. It is only then that this pervasive numbness can be pierced. Then, and only then, can we be energized into new life and a new experience of living a life different from the dominant society—a life of alternative consciousness that our faith demands. So, if we were to follow Brueggemann's solution, or way out, how do we first grieve something as intangible as a general feeling of numbness or restlessness? 

Perhaps naming something as lost is a good first step. Many of us might need to mourn the loss of a sense of safety in a world that doesn't seem recognizable to us anymore. Or perhaps we need to mourn the loss of a sense of community and connection that used to exist in person but now exists mostly virtually and doesn't feel the same. Others might need to mourn the loss of a church that was, of pews that were full Sunday after Sunday across all denominations—a time when more new churches were opening than closing. A church that is going to look very different in the future. 

This public lament and mourning, as difficult as it can be, allows room for something new to emerge—an antidote to break the restlessness. The crowds in this morning's gospel were hungry and thirsty for that same antidote that many of us are searching for today. Jesus tries to get away, to rest, to recharge, to pray, but they will not let him. They persist; they know on a deeply spiritual level that Jesus, a prophet himself, in addition to being the divine Son of God, had the ability to break through the bonds of the oppressive society that they lived in—to relieve their numbness, energize them, and give them hope. 

Matthew states that when he went ashore, he saw a great crowd, and he had compassion for them. Brueggemann states that this compassion announces that hurt is to be taken seriously—that it is not to be accepted as normal and natural, but is in a normal and unacceptable condition for humanness. In the example of the compassion and service of Jesus, God is energizing us to a new way of life. The life and resurrection of Jesus shows us an example of how to penetrate this numbness—to be a people of hope in a way that recognizes and names the evils of oppressive empire, has the courage to publicly mourn our collective losses, and brings us to a new way of living in our compassion and service to the least among us. 

So that we also, as the psalmist says this morning, may open wide our hands and satisfy the needs of every living creature. There is great thirst and hunger out there. So let us come to the waters and bring others with us. Incline our ears and come to Him. Listen so that we may live. Amen.