Amen. In the name of God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, Amen. The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore, ask the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.

You know, it's not easy being green, says that beloved American philosopher Kermit the Frog. Once again, we Christians of a liturgical bent will discover that he is right. For most of the weeks and months ahead, our Sunday dress code will be green, unless Father Charles finds an appropriate apostle or evangelist to transfer to a nearby Sunday, and we know he will. The season after Pentecost begins the day after the Holy Spirit blew an infant church out onto the mean streets of old Jerusalem. But there are a few more concepts to be addressed and outfits to be worn before we really turn green.

The Sunday after Pentecost, we went back to Festal White for Trinity Sunday. Mother Anne reminded us that it's often said this is a feast about a doctrine, and then she went on to tell us how it is so much more. Not a doctrine to be explained, but the fullness of Almighty God to be explored, experienced, shared, and celebrated. Trinity Sunday is a party to revel in, to adore the mystery of Almighty God, not to develop a job description for the deity. One more Sunday for the fancy white vestments, Corpus Christi. Again, a joy-filled celebration of a precious gift. Father Charles quoted St. Augustine quoting St. Paul. And now I'm going to conflate all three of them.

Such a feast means recognizing Christ truly present in the consecrated bread and the wine against the evidence of your eyes. It also means recognizing Christ in the neighbor kneeling beside you as you receive communion. You are the body of Christ and individually members of it. Because what we eat is what we become, transformed more and more into Christ-likeness and sent out to be Christ's body in the world. Apparently, we are what we eat. And now we are ready to go green. And as Kermit says, it's not going to be easy.

The first half of the liturgical year is about the mighty acts of God, from creation to consummation. The second half is the time to respond, to explore how we live our lives and confront our world in the light of God in Christ in the power of the Holy Spirit. It's a time to pay attention to what Jesus is doing still, to become more fully who Jesus makes us, the body of Christ. Then simply do what Jesus does as if it's simple. Do it together as a mystery we call the church.

If last Sunday was about that crucial commandment, "This is my body given for you; do this in remembrance of me," then this season calls us to trust that this is more than a meal shared with his friends by a Jewish rabbi on the night before he died. This is a way—Jesus' way—of putting a world back together, his way of blessing and of brokenness, of pouring out one's life blood for the sake of others, a way of sharing and healing, of giving and forgiving, a way of making the kingdom known in bread and wine because he first made it known in flesh and blood and still must make it known even in you and me.

The green season is a time for learning anew how to be the church for our time and place in a broken world and a wounded nation. It is a lesson the people of God have been relearning for millennia. Moses came down from Sinai with an incredible mission for a motley crew of runaway slaves lost in the desert. Their life together would be a sign to all that God was a deliverer of captives, protector of the weak, a healer of the broken. "You shall be for me a priestly kingdom and a holy nation." A new identity.

God's mission and Jesus' ministry came together in the green hills of Galilee, with a man who had a message of the kingdom come near and a mission fashioned out of a healing human touch, a shared meal, and a company of fractious, fallible followers sent out to accomplish more of the same. Before he died for us, he taught us how to live for others. Because he died for us, he still does. The man, the ministry, and the mission are still God's ways of calling a world to work another way.

And this year, for this seemingly endless green season, we get Matthew, the evangelist, to lead us through. Matthew's Jesus will not make it easy. This is a teachy, preachy gospel, solid and serious, full of prosy "shoulds" and "aughts." Despite the beauty of the Beatitudes in Matthew's version of the Lord's Prayer, Matthew is rarely anyone's favorite gospel. And yet Matthew writes Jesus' story for his own people, people who are harassed and helpless, oppressed by a cruel empire and corrupt leadership.

Today, Matthew shows and tells us what Jesus does: teaching, healing, and proclaiming the good news of the kingdom with deep compassion for the hurting and the frightened. Next, Jesus brings together a company to carry on that work, a somewhat motley crew like those runaway slaves, maybe like you and me. Then he sends them and us off to do what he does, not to convert people, not to demand they name Jesus as their personal Lord and Savior, but to respond to the real needs of people with mercy and compassion, doing the work of healing and restoration grounded in the promises and purposes of God, just like he did.

Matthew and his people will try to teach us how to be the church in a world still full of the harassed, helpless, and hurting. There are some lovely comforting words from Matthew's Jesus: "Come to me, all you that are weary and are carrying heavy burdens, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light." But then there are some not-so-comfortable words: "Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace, but a sword." Actually, we did think he came to bring peace, and that sword is kind of scary.

Matthew gives us green and growing parables about sowers and seeds, wheat and weeds. They tempt us to rush out and root out nasty weeds wherever we think we find them. But Jesus warns us that judgment belongs to God, not to us. Yet many of Matthew's parables end with a furnace of fire and weeping and gnashing of teeth. They're also a little scary. There are Sundays with serial parables about ordinary people, everyday things, and surprising encounters with grace. Will we begin to believe that God shows up in all of that? Will we begin to ponder what it means for our own ordinary lives?

The green season helps us discover that our ordinary lives and our spiritual lives are not separate things. Matthew's Jesus still pries the church to new insights about inclusion, judgment, and retrieving old traditions for new situations. He calls into question our comfortable expectations that the church exists only to make us feel good, which just might allow us to seek meaning and God in our own fragility.

The work of the season after Pentecost requires perseverance, patience, and fidelity. It demands that we discern how to be Christ's body in a world that is not entirely different from Matthew's own. There are still plenty of harassed and helpless human beings around, assaulted by cruel governments and corrupt leadership. Brutal and costly spectacles still serve the egos of the powerful. Hate is proclaimed by burning crosses that mar our public spaces, even pretty close to home.

It is Flag Day and Pride Month—the stars and stripes that become for many of us a source of anguish, and the rainbow, a source of scorn for others, signs of our times. And yet, a reminder that our ultimate allegiance is not to any flag, but to a different realm and a different kind of king. It is our turn to show the world another way, Jesus' way. And that mission has never been easy or safe, only saving.

A green season gives us time and space to reflect on the mystery of the church, a mystery that shapes us, sustains us, and makes us more than we ever imagined we could become: the body of Christ for the world. Again, a new identity. The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore, ask the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. A green season means to show how you and I are the answer to that prayer.

Charles McGee is a French intellectual and writer who died in the trenches during World War I. He left us these words, which I think speak to our condition: "It doesn't make sense. We who are nothing, who do not last, who endure hardly at all, it doesn't make sense that it is we who are ordered to preserve and to feed on earth the word which has been spoken, the word of God. It is our business to feed the living word from the time in which it was spoken until the day of judgment in a secular world without end, from generation to generation. It is not enough that we should have been created, that we should have been born, that we should have remained faithful. It depends upon us that the eternal should not lack the temporal, a strange reversal, that the spirit should not be deprived of the carnal, that eternity should not lack time, that the spirit should not lack flesh, that the soul, so to speak, should not lack a body, that Jesus should not lack a church, his church. And it is we who must carry it through to the end so that God is not deprived of God's creation."

My sisters and brothers, it depends upon us. Amen.