Today is Trinity Sunday. It's an odd little feast day, not based on any event in Jesus' life, like Christmas or Easter, but on a doctrine: the doctrine of the Trinity. Now, I don't know about you, but just the word "doctrine" starts my eyes glazing over. The thought of spending a whole sermon on the doctrine of the Trinity is enough to put even the preacher to sleep. So I'm not going to talk about the doctrine of the Trinity this morning. I am going to talk about how much God loves us and how we can know that.

We say that God is our Father and, for some, our Mother. It is a way of saying that God is the source, the creator of everything that is. But notice that God is Father or Mother, not manufacturer. Creation isn't the product; it's the child. We are not God's objects, but God's children. Creation isn't some static thing that God threw out into space a billion years ago, but an ongoing, ever-developing, ever-changing process. God says, "Let there be," and there is. God says, "Let there be light and dark, earth and sea, mountains and forests, anacondas and avocados," and they are. And God says, "Let there be Pam and John and Charles and Belinda and Anne." And we are. God speaks us into existence. We are not made by machine, but born on the breath of God. It's a very intimate relationship. We forget that.

We tend to imagine God as some distant being, one who often looks like our human father or grandfather, sometimes standing on a cloud, making black marks against our names every time we make a mistake. But if God has breathed us into being, has spoken our true names, then this is a God who knows us deeply and loves us without end. We say that God is our parent, but we also talk about God the Son. Now, this is where Christianity either becomes the most wonderful or the most truly bizarre faith on earth. Because what we claim is that God's love is so overflowing and abundant that it could not be contained, but spilled over into human life and flesh. 

"God so loved the world," says John, "that he gave his only Son so that everyone who believes in him may not perish but have eternal life." This is extraordinary in any number of ways. First, that God would become human at all. Not only does that say that physical life is somehow precious to God, but also that God knows and shares every human experience: physical, mental, and emotional. We are profoundly and inextricably wrapped up in our bodies. We have thoughts that lead to actions. We have feelings that make our bodies react in certain ways. There is nothing about being human that isn't also physical in one way or another. We grow, we develop, we age, we are hurt or become sick, we heal, and finally, we die. This is all about being a body. 

So how amazing to have a God who knows all of those experiences and has felt all the feelings and thought all the thoughts that go with them. That God would take on our physicalness and share it with us, even to the point of dying a slow and painful human death, is surely proof of how much we are loved. The second extraordinary thing about God becoming human is the resurrection. If Jesus had come and preached the gospel and been crucified, that would be a moving story. Jesus would be a great prophet, a brave hero, and we could admire him. But what we claim in our faith is that God raised Jesus from the dead, that the love of God could not be overcome or destroyed by death. God's love is so powerful that death, which seems to us the most powerful force there is, couldn't stop it. God had the last word, and that word was life. 

So God's love for us overflows even the abyss of death. Even after humanity had tortured and killed the Son of God, God did not abandon us, but sent Jesus back from the dead to prove that love so that we could see it for ourselves. The appearances of Jesus to the disciples were not just to prove that God was bigger and stronger than death, but that God would go on loving us in the midst of the worst possible things we could do. We need that promise, that God forgives us, so that we can have the strength to do better and the ability to forgive ourselves and those around us. So God's generosity pours out over us in creation and in the redeeming love and life of God the Son. 

Any of that would have been enough. But divine abundance goes even beyond that. Last week, we celebrated the gift of God the Holy Spirit. This is perhaps the most wonderful part of all God's generosity. For the Holy Spirit is the gift of love and relationship. There is a theory in physics that all of reality is joined together with invisible strings. People of faith already know that this is true because the Holy Spirit is the love of God which holds all things together and which connects us to one another and to every other created thing. We love not because we should or because someone forces us to. We love because we have been loved and are loved. God the Holy Spirit gives us courageous hearts and generous hands. The Holy Spirit guides us and comforts us. God the Holy Spirit makes a way where there is no way. 

God loves us enough to create us, to share our humanity, to overcome the worst we can do, and to stay in our hearts, loving us, empowering us, and guiding us forward into the kingdom. It is abundance beyond all imagining. Okay, so maybe this was a sermon about the Trinity. But really, it is all about how much God loves us. At bottom, that is really what theology is: just different ways of thinking about how much God loves us. How God manages to be one God and yet three different persons is a mystery. We can see God's different expressions of love for us and still know that it is one God who loves us. And maybe that's enough. 

If we want to take something away from this, something that we can use in our living in the world, perhaps it is this: God loves us, redeems us, nurtures us, and lives in us. We have been given an abundance of love, and the best response to that love is for us to give it to others. There are people out there who do not know how much God loves them. Let us tell them, not in words, but in deeds. Let us give to others with the abandon that God has given to us. Let us show the world what an amazing gift we have been given by giving amazing gifts ourselves. And may God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, be with us in that giving.