In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, amen. My mother was born in Minot, North Dakota, if any of you are familiar with that area, a mere 50 miles away from the Canadian border. Her grandfather, my great-grandfather, whom I never knew but heard about, was fond of telling stories. One of the stories I recall is of how he, as a youth, would spend time during the summers at a small lake cabin with his family. The cabin was old and without the benefit of plumbing. The water supply during those months came from an old well that stood just down the hill from the front door. He said the water was clean, cool, and thirst-quenching. Even when there was a bit of a drought and other families had to look for other sources of drinking water, somehow the family well continued to yield fresh water.

Well, the time came when the cabin was, to some extent, modernized. If you can think of what modernized might mean in the 19th century, modern plumbing and running water were then installed. This necessitated a modern well further down from the house, and the old well was sealed off, kept in case something should happen to the new well. It was this way for several years until he became curious one summer day and went over to the old well to uncover it. Expecting to find the same cool, refreshing waters that he had known, he was surprised to find that the well was completely dry. In this case, it was from lack of use. Nevertheless, a dry well was not uncommon in Jesus' day. Historical evidence suggests that Jacob's well, the scene of today's gospel passage, also had dry spells and low water levels at times, particularly during the dry summer months, despite being over a hundred feet deep. Its water supply relied on rainfall, meaning it could run dry without regular rain.

So here it is, in the heat of the noon sun, Jesus asks for a drink to quench his thirst. I love how the gospel story unfolds around a basic human need and experience, namely the need to quench one's thirst and satisfy a simple human need for water. Yet in John's gospel, as is so often the case, the water becomes symbolic of a spiritual reality whereby Jesus mentions living water from which a person doesn’t thirst again. The words of Jesus are often an answer to a question that the characters in the Gospels hold, either explicitly or implicitly. Like the characters in the Gospel, we bring our lived questions as well. Our 21st-century experience might not be so removed from hers. We too share a desire to have our deeper thirsts quenched in an enduring way, like the Samaritan woman, with living waters that don't run dry, that cannot be jeopardized. But the question is, can such waters be found? If you're like me, you yearn to know how you can access it.

Well, briefly, I will invite you into my own process of discovering the question that I hold in my heart. It came to me this week through a musical experience. Perhaps you've noticed how certain music can open your heart and transport you to a place that's otherwise inaccessible? This week, in my feed—I'm sure you get them too on YouTube—I came across a song, a version of a song by Coldplay, performed as a duo with Chris Martin, the lead vocalist, and the multi-instrumentalist phenomenon Jacob Collier. The lyrics of the song go as follows: "Tears stream down your face. I promise you I will learn from my mistakes. Tears stream down your face when you lose something you cannot replace." 

The song and the performance were so moving for me. It was like I couldn't shake it; it accompanied me throughout the week. Sometimes, tears streamed down my own face as I listened and watched the performance. I kept returning to the song, so poignant, so true. How sad it is on earth when one loses someone or something of value that cannot be replaced. Then I recognized for myself, there's my question that I'm bringing to the gospel. Moved by the song and preparing for preaching this weekend, I realized that the song put me in deep contact with my own experience and question. I began to wonder, could it be, is it too far-fetched that something of this nature is what concerned the Samaritan woman at the well? 

It's such an archetypal quest for us as human beings in time and space, where many things are impermanent, and where you lose someone you can't replace. It's so understandable that in those conditions we yearn for the eternal. I imagine her as a very perceptive woman with a lot of chutzpah, as they say, because she's dialoguing with a Jewish rabbi, as well as a man. Here he is, a man, a Jew, a rabbi, and none of that stops her. The social rules of the time unmistakably dictated they were not supposed to mingle. I wonder, might she have been disappointed at that which doesn't last, which can't be replaced? This can be a heartbreaking and universal human experience, possibly suggested in the husband imagery. Yet, I see her as curious, entering into a deep conversation—this, in fact, being the longest exchange with Jesus contained in the scriptures.

My imagination takes me to a place where I see her entering into the conversation initially, but without easy buy-in. Almost as if to say, "Really, living waters you say? I'd love to believe that. But not thirsting again? That's not my experience." It's her implicit question that the story points to. Is there a life we can count on and trust ourselves to that genuinely is not only abundant but lasts and is eternal? The answer comes from Jesus when he says, "The water that I will give becomes a spring of water gushing up to eternal life." Now she's evidence-based and thirsty for this, and yet finally yields and says, "Okay, give me this water that I might not be thirsty." 

Underneath, I sense in her that there's a hope, a faith, and a willingness to entrust herself to him in all her vulnerability with this question. And isn't it a question we too share about eternal life that may lurk beneath the threshold of our awareness and in the deeper recesses of our heart? Does the author of our existence want to sustain us with these living waters that don't run dry? Am I being loved into existence with an inexhaustible love that doesn't run dry? Does the source of love and life love me enough to want to raise me to life eternal? Is that message of good news really intended for me, for all of us?

In the story, it's implied that the Samaritan woman encounters these waters after Jesus says, "I am speaking to you." But I believe this is not so much an external event as an internal knowing and transformation suggested by her leaving the water jar behind. She's found it. She's found and experienced the divine living waters poured forth in her interior, where there's no more thirst. Internalizing it and truly knowing it for oneself, and not by hearsay from someone else, is where John's gospel consistently leads us. The women in John's Gospel are the ones who truly hear the good news so often and proclaim it. The Samaritan woman, in her own way, is an early evangelizer, spreading the good news.

St. John's Gospel invites us to know this for ourselves, just as she does, so that we become almost like those townspeople who, at the conclusion of this gospel passage, say to the woman, "It's no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we've heard it for ourselves, and we know this is truly the Savior of the world." We know it in our hearts in a way that no one can take away from us. Looked at in one way, Lent is the church's retreat. The readings and the rituals invite us more deeply to come to know for ourselves the living waters of God's liberating forgiveness, of God's transforming love that seeks us out, whether or not our lives are perfect, whatever our relationship or marital status is, with unmerited grace and an offer of life eternal.

Like the Samaritan woman, coming to a deepening experience of the divine living waters demands one thing from us, as it did for her: our personal engagement with Christ, the author of life. May our Lenten prayer and practices invite us into meaningful conversation with Him. May it embolden us to bring our deepest questions to Him, and may it open our hearts to the inexhaustible life He offers. Amen.