Well, as you can see in the service bulletin, my name is Jen Adams, and I am the rector of Grace Episcopal Church in Holland, Michigan, which was home to Nicholas for several years early in their life and is still home for some family. I have also had the joy of walking with both Nicholas and Noel, these two amazing people, for several months now as part of their preparation for today. It has been a joy. So thank you, Charles, and thank you, Church of the Atonement, for your hospitality. It's wonderful to be here in this space with all of you as we gather to celebrate.

Now, besides thank you, I would also like to add your welcome. I'm apparently a lake effect magnet and managed to bring last night's beautiful blanket— that's a northern Midwest way of describing snow. I managed to bring that along from one side of the big lake to the other side of the big lake as I traveled here. Just one more thing to wrap around the two of you and all of us today. All of that said, morning is broken. Thank you, Nicholas and Noel, for the invitation to walk with you, to celebrate, and to preach today. I appreciate this 40-minute time slot that you've given me. I promise to do my best to keep to that.

There are a lot of people here today whom you saw as you processed in, but I want you to have an even better view than you have so you can soak this up and find a place for it to settle in you. So stand up for just a moment, face out, and look around. See the family and friends who are here with you—another warm blanket of sorts. Now, maybe close your eyes for a minute or two and see the folks who are online here with you too, streaming in, traveling across time zones and other borders that can be transcended as we come together for and with you in this moment as we gather together for this experience of blessing. These are the ones who proclaimed a loud and strong "we will" just a few minutes ago, a promise we will echo through your married life. So let this all settle inside of you. Take a deep breath to help that happen. Make a little space in a place you can access and lean into whenever you need to.

Okay, you can sit. Today we celebrate this beautiful experience of joy, love, and light in the midst of days in which we, in this world, need all the joy, love, and light we can get. What a gift this is. What a gift you two are in so many ways. A gift first to each other. You've said as much, but know that we all see it too. We've seen the goodness that shines in your mutual support and encouragement through ongoing discernments. Your honesty with each other as you navigate life's decisions. The way you smile in those almost obnoxiously sweet pictures that you shared with all of us. And how you seem to find balance so easily by leaning on each other while you read. All gift. Not to mention the home you have made for and the adoration which you shower upon, appropriately so, your cats. Your gift to each other and your cats.

But you also shine that grace into the world beyond your household. You are reflecting some of what God dreams for this world as you vow to make love your way of life. So there is not only goodness in this; there is holiness in this too. Because there is love, which has the power to sustain, to sanctify, to transform in ways that allow blessings to flow not only between the two of you but through you and around you too. A few examples of how this plays out. Because I've only got 40 minutes, I won't be able to cover the whole list. I encourage you all, and the two of you as well, to add to this list throughout the reception and as you walk through the days and months and years to come, ways in which you have managed to pull off and commit to love.

What you have managed so far—this is what love looks like, Nicholas and Noel. You've woven together "them" into "us." So bring it, Nicholas and Noel. The two of you are somehow able to break out of molds that are overly and unjustly confining. You are able to do so in a way that is not just a way to be a part of it. Nicholas and Noel, the two of you are somehow able to break out of molds that are overly and unjustly confining while simultaneously claiming stubbornly faithful space within covenants and traditions that run deep. This is how love lives. You are able to be and live with incredible courage, taking leaps and risks at various turns while also remaining aware enough and wise enough to know when the risk for someone else is too high. At which point, individually and together, you do what you can to help keep those who are also us safe. You weave risk and sacrifice into something like sanctuary writ large. This is what love looks like.

Another example of this service is in English and in French, which sounds simple. Actually, it doesn't sound simple to me. Thank you, Charles, for helping this happen in the way in which it can happen today. But Nicholas and Noel, note that not everyone would have taken the extra effort involved in that, or even have been open to it or thought of it. Today we gather in holy time and in holy space in which everyone is invited to bring themselves in so many different ways. It allows not only for observing but participating, even belonging. This is what love does.

To touch on the religious dimensions of this, because I know this matters in significantly beautiful ways to the two of you, you have come together as a Catholic and as an Episcopalian. Granted, not the widest gap some might say, but you'd be surprised. Or not. Love being that today and every day, the distance between has been overcome by the love within, around, and running through it all. Today, you have brought us together at the Episcopal Church of the Atonement in a city that is the hometown of the current Pope, woven in aspects of both your traditions while surrounding yourselves with a spiritually broad and diverse community of people that is celebrating together without too much struggle, as far as I can tell. This is how love thrives.

Finally, you literally processed into the "March of the Prince of Denmark." Now, I get the Hamlet connection. Whether or not that piece was also chosen for the multitude of layers it hits in this time and in this place, noted and nicely done. This way you have chosen takes the two of you into new and holy experiences. It also reminds us to hold our ongoing challenges with both strength and the occasional regular smile. This is how love carries on.

Like I said, this list is long, and I invite you all to add to it. This is what love can do, Nicholas and Noel. This is what you have done so far—who knows what's yet to come? Carry on and be carried on as you enter into and live into your marriage. In the midst of a world battling empire, Jesus gathered his messy yet risk-taking crew to muster hope, and he summarized the way forward this way: "I give you a new commandment: that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also should love one another." It's that simple. Let it be.

Remember as you go to pause, to look around and connect with your people. Take life-giving risks while you also help those for whom the risks are already unjustly and inhumanely high. Lean into your faith, trusting that where it cracks in order to hold you, it needs to crack in order to hold you and shine through you too. Because it does, and it will. Keep a shovel in your car because, well, lake effect, right? And all other effects. Remember that love looks on tempest and all kinds of storms and is never shaken. Finally, be a star to guide every wandering bark. Let yourselves be guided when you need to be, because we all need to be. Play with and snuggle with your cats. Lean into the vows you take today and hear God saying to you, "Where you go, I will go. Where you lodge, I will lodge. Your people shall be my people—all of them." Which is all of us, my people, God says. May blessings continue to flow upon the two of you always. Amen.